Expectations parents have for their child's educational attainment are important in students' success. However, little is known about how parental expectations evolve within a wide socio-cultural context (i.e., nationwide) and how they evolve throughout a student's school life. To address these gaps, we examine (1) the evolution of parental expectations in Chile over time, and (2) students' lifetime, this is, the grade-related variation of parental expectations. We examine differences based on students’ academic performance, socioeconomic level, and gender. We analyze eighteen years of longitudinal census data, following students between 2nd grade to 11th grade and their parents/guardians’ survey responses (10,877,961 total registers for 4,983,923 students). From a longitudinal perspective, ten cohorts of students are followed at least three times, comprising a time span of four to seven years per cohort. Our analysis shows that, since 2005, parental expectations have increased over time and throughout the life of Chilean students, specifically for low-income students and students with lower academic performance. However, in recent years this trend has stopped and parental expectations are decreasing in those groups, which could be a threat to students’ academic future. Within cohorts and schools, parental expectations are lower for initially low-performing students as soon as 2nd grade, with the exception of high-income students who seem unaffected by their academic performance. 
